# MOF-Stability-NN
Neural net to determine metal-organic framework (MOF) stability based on selected properties of metal ions, organic linkers, and MOF physical properties.

The Generate_ChemicalStability_NN.py and Generate_ThermalStability_NN.py files can be used to generate neural networks that take an Excel file as an input and output predicted chemical stability classifications (0 is air sensitive; 1 is air stable, but degrades in liquid water; 2 is stable in room temperature water, but degrades in mildly acidic and/or basic water and/or boiling water; 3 is stable in all the above conditions) and thermal decomposition temperatures (as measured by thermogravimetric analysis) for the MOFs in the input file. The input Excel file should have at least three different parameters (in addition to the decomposition temperature/chemical stability classification) for each MOF and should have at least 32 total MOFs for a sufficiently large dataset. These files will cycle through all of the possible combinations of three of the input parameters and select the neural network that led to the lowest combined training and testing data loss, meaning that these three parameters have the greatest effect on the stability of the MOF (if the neural network is accurate of course). They will then construct an additional nueral network for these optimum parameters using a larger number of epochs and generate loss curves (and accuracy curves for the chemical stability neural networks) and plots comparing the true values of the outputs to the values predicted by the neural network for the testing and training data.

The UseExisting_ChemicalStability_NN.py and UseExisting_ThermalStability_NN.py files will use an existing model to generate plots of actual vs. predicted values of training and testing datasets. The three columns wihtin the Excel file containing the inputs for the MOFs in the dataset must be specified and the decomposition temperatures/water stability classification must be in the final column of the file.

The Excel files in this repository contain Thermal and Chemical stability data for 40 MOFs in addition to information about the organic linker functional group that binds the metal ions (1 is imidazolate, 2 is triazole, 3 is tetrazole, 4 is pyrazole, and 5 is carboxylate), the pKa of the liner, the d electron count of the metal ion, the electronegativity of the metal, the formal charge of the metal, the molecular weight (in g/mol) of the liner, the connectivity of the linker (number of metal atoms bound by a single linker), and the Langmuir surface area (in m^2/g) of the resulting MOFs. Each of these eight parameters will be considered in the Generate_ChemicalStability_NN.py and Generate_ThermalStability_NN.py files as potential parameters for the neural network.

The h5 files contain existing neural networks generated on the data in the Excel files that can be used with the UseExisting_ChemicalStability_NN.py and UseExisting_ThermalStability_NN.py files to generate plots for a dataset.
